Well against my better judgment I'm going to start with the characters skin on the torso.
I figured I'd just go ahead and jump right in and see how it goes.
I've already got some colors picked out.
I created a new palette here called skin and I've gone ahead and added some colors off of this reference
image of an iguana.
It's got some really nice greens and browns in it.
And that's what I picked up here also for reference.
I went ahead and took some selfies.
Why are you laughing.
Anyway I wanted to get a few reference images of just the anatomy of the torso.
I think what I want to do is begin with this darker color here something like this and begin just laying
down the shadows of the muscle tones.
Let me swing down here and reduce the strength.
I've still got a texture on and I think I'm going to go with that for now just to see how it works.
I've got jitter pretty low and spacing pretty low so let's just see how this works.
Also down here in the curves now the default curve for our brush is usually this and this curve is just
kind of half of the curve of the brush so the brush.
This is the edge or widest part of the brush.
And then this is the top of the brush.
And then this is the other half over here so this is just kind of half of the curve of the brush.
I'm going to go ahead and go with this one and see how this works.
This should I think Feather the edges a little bit better we'll see how that works.
All right let's give this a try.
Flying without a net here.
Let's see if we can do.
All right I'm going to come in here and I'm just going to begin with the pecs and let me just draw and
see.
OK.
That's not bad.
Let me do this.
Oh also you know what I should do is come up here to symmetry and turn on X symmetry.
Now whenever I draw on one side it should come over on the other side.
And doing that also helps me realize that I need to mask off the torso from the rest of the character
so let me undo that.
Now let's come down here and turn on face masking.
I'll hit the A key a couple times to make sure everything's de-selected and then I'm just going to hover
over this and press the key and hitting the L key will just select those areas that have been defined
by the seams.
When we mapped well when we hit the L key.
Here grab this area up here.
I don't think I'll be doing the face today but just in case I am kind of go over.
All right.
Let me reduce the brush strength and down again.
And let's see if we can do here so I'm going to come over here and just start down here and try and
pick up the Shadow down underneath the pecs maybe get the shadow between here as well.
Something like that.
And I'm going to extend that over here.
I wanted to find the deltoids a bit up here and maybe back here.
Let's see if I can see.
Yeah I think right in here.
And pick up the Shadow down here.
So I'm just trying to help define.
Once again what we've already done with the normal map and I'm keeping an eye over here on my on my
selfies.
To make sure I'm doing all right.
Let me get these
muscles in here.
OK.
So we're beginning to get some of the muscle tone there.
Let's go round the back and see if we can do here.
Let's get this between the shoulder blades here.
Maybe down on the back.
We could probably help define the biceps a little better down here.
And also the little bit of the elbow right in here.
And maybe a shadow underneath the elbow out here.
So I'm just as I said I'm just trying to help define what's already there.
Now one thing I did want to mention here is I did add a new slot called skin.
So this is just another texture paint slot that I've added and reduced the alpha all the way to zero.
So I can paint over this.
Once again it's a great idea to do this on its own layer because you can erase and begin over if you
need to or at least make adjustments like I'm looking at this now.
And to me this right here doesn't seem to work very well so I'm going to flip my pen over and just bring
the strength up a bit and maybe try and erase that back a hair just doesn't seem to be working for me
as well.
Now I can move the strength back down and flip my pen back over.
All right so now that we've got the shadows kind of drawn in here what I'd like to do now is do some
of the highlights and I've got this color I believe I could use for highlights.
I think this may be a little bit too bright.
We could try it.
Let me try this and see.
Yeah I mean it just that looks a little too bright.
How about how about this
still a little much.
And let me try this one I think this is the one I had in mind for this.
Let me reduce the strength the hair and see if I can come in and create just a little bit of highlights
on here.
So now I'm just going to come through next to all of the shadows and just try and add a little bit of
highlight to it.
So maybe up here on the deltoids.
So maybe along this little muscle here of course we need it along the biceps something like this.
Let me work on these muscles here just to try and put a little highlight on them.
Let's go in and get even more of a highlight so maybe something like this.
And I think what I'll also do is increase my jitter and spacing on this just a little bit so that I
kind of hopefully get a bit of a texture.
Let's see try again.
Yeah.
So I want this kind of thing.
All right.
So let me try this
all right.
So now I've got this stuff down.
I'm going to try and use that smear brush and see if I can kind of blend things together a little bit.
Let's go back and try and use this smear brush see if this works at all.
See if we can blim things together a bit.
I'm going to increase the strength just a bit so we can see what's happening.
And then you just see you can kind of smooth these out just a bit.
So they're not quite so rough and prominent that may be a little too much down here.
Something like this so yeah just smoothing this back.
It's not quite so.
All right.
That's looking pretty good.
Now the last thing I want to do here is let me try
let me try a very light highlight here.
Let me try this.
I'm going to take now I think I'll leave that on but I'm going to take the jitter and the spacing down
some.
And I think I'd like to try and just add a few very bright highlights to this.
Let's see if we can do this without it being too too much.
Let me try.
Let me just test this may be a bit too much.
I'm going to take the texture out to test that.
OK that's a little bit better and more what I was thinking.
All right so where should we put these highlights.
Probably on the clavicle up here.
Probably along here let's say something like that
and looks like I'm just looking at these areas here just to try and figure out where the highlight should
go.
And then maybe once again along the bicep here
maybe down here on top of these muscles here.
Let's try this.
And where else maybe one right along in here.
Maybe this right back in here.
Let's take a look in the back here maybe we want a highlight here.
And one down here on the elbow Let's try that
there's that.
OK.
So let's turn off the face masking here.
And we go Well let's take a look at it.
Well all right.
Not too bad.
I think there's some work I could do by using the smear tool again and maybe even racing back a few
of the really strong highlights.
But other than that I think you get a good sense of kind of what you can do with just the texture painting.
And once again have it emphasized and highlight what's going on in the normal map.
So I'll keep working here on the rest of the body maybe in the next video will work on the head and
try and get the head and the face done and hey we're almost done with this.